- [Instructor] Let's quickly review REST
before we explore the JAX-RS API.
In REST architecture, API clients send requests
to an API and receive responses over HTTP.
The HTTP request contains information
such as the URI and the request method that informs the API
of a desired operation or data the client is requesting.
The API maps request information to an endpoint
and then returns a response to the client
in adjacent format over HTTP.
The response contains resource representations
for requested data or information
about the operation performed
as the result of the client request.
The client then receives the response from the API
and processes the information returned by the API.
Let's look at a quick example to learn more.
This REST API provides endpoints
that correspond the operations
to an inventoryitems resource.
It exposes five endpoints for the resource
that generally map to CRUD operations.
To the left of the endpoints,
you see the request methods or operations
and their corresponding mappings to CRUD operations.
Some operations like post
require API clients to provide additional information
in the HTTP request body,
such as the inventory item to create.
This is typically provided in adjacent format.
Other endpoints may require information
to be supplied in the URL,
which is denoted by the template parameters
in curly braces.
As we progress in this chapter,
we'll see how JAX-RS can be used
to easily construct REST API implementations in Java EE
that conform to these standards.